NeuroScoutingTreeProblem
========================

Code repository for node tree problem

This is the code and scripts for the NeuroScouting Tree Problem Exercise.

Here is the src and bin files to be run in any Java IDE. To run the program, please run the RunTrees class file and execute the main function. The console will ask for an integer input, and will print the tree afterwards. If 0 was entered, the program will end. 

This program is made up of 2 classes (not counting the running class), Tree and Leaf. Most of the code is inside Tree, where the Leaf class is a class to end recursions and has no children nodes. The RunTrees class creates trees from the Tree and Leaf class and calls public functions from either. The user can not call any functions that actually change the trees. The only functions that can be called from RunTree is functions that returns a value.

When a tree is first created, it should be a Leaf, as it has no children. Then, to add, the setUpTree function is then called to create the entire tree and set up all values correctly. This is done through multiple helper functions that do each part step by step. It first goes through a recursive function to create all children and children of children so that it generates a tree with the correct height and all children nodes necessary. However, all values of all nodes in this brand new tree is 1, which is incorrect in context of the problem. It then calls another function to set all the correct values each node respectively should have. This is done by going through each node, checking if they have a left or right neighbor, and then setting the CHILDREN nodes of that node to the correct value based on its own value and the neighbor's values. It does this recursively to every child node, in a depth first order. However, this results in an error, because the nodes on the right most that need right neighbors from the right sides of trees have not been correctly set yet. In order to solve this problem, the left nodes need to be set, then the right nodes will be set correctly, and then the tree goes back to the left one more time to re-set the values so that this time, with the right half's nodes all correctly set, the left half's will be correct this time.

Next, there is the function to print out the tree. Since the console prints line by line, we have to get and print each node line by line. Therefore, the printTree function first gets all the values in a breadth first order. This way, the printer can print each all values for height 1 of the tree, then all values for height 2, then height 3, and so on. It also has to print the correct number of spaces so that it looks like a normal binary tree. Since a binary tree is like a pyramid shape, spaces it needs to print gets less and less for each consecutive line. This function figures out exactly how many spaces are needed in front of the first value of the height number, and also the spaces needed in between each value node. The final result is a tree that is a nearly perfect pyramid shape.
